Hello again you wonderful God.
People in this video we're going to work on the locked doors.
Probably not finish them in this video but we to make sure that the number pad works as we might expect.
So let's talk about how the number pad is going to work.
Specifically we're going to have a bunch of buttons and each button is going to do a different thing
so button five can't do the same thing as Button one.
And the display has to update for each number button we press say no button because if we open up godda
and I go over to my locked doors and then I open up another pad you'll notice there's a button here
that isn't a number that has to do something different.
So I'm inside my number pad scene.
What do I need to happen.
Well the first thing I need is a script.
Let's put a script in number pad heads up do it in the number pad scene.
Don't do it here in the locked door thing if you put a scene here a locked door scene you're pulling
as a script on the instance of no pad not on the no patsy.
I want this happen on every number pad just in case he's at somewhere else.
So brainy script and put this in the scripts folder.
Nicole it no pad will get to go.
OK.
So we now have a script and we want to do stuff.
The very first thing to do is grab all of these buttons.
Now a couple of ways we could do this.
We could put all of the buttons in a group.
This is not I deal.
Here's why.
If I put all the buttons on a group I call the group buttons.
When we instance a new version of a locked door every button one is going to trigger every single locked
door.
And that could cause problems.
So instead I'm going to use a signal because that allows me to control exactly where this is going.
The next thing I could do is make a signal for Button one if I go into node and do button press and
connect it.
I can make a signal on but when pressed and I can do the same from button to on button.
But this is really irritating.
So let's just get rid of the function I just made and instead I'm going make it brandnew function and
I'm going to call it connect buttons and what connect buttons is going to do is it's going to go into
this button grid.
It's going to grab all of the children and then connect them as a button.
And it's going to use the label on the button as a signal back into the script.
This means that whatever label with put on the individual buttons so for instance six eight okay will
be sent as a signal.
That's really helpful because it means if we decide that we need an alphanumeric system so we need a
quirky keyboard or as a T keyboard all we need.
I don't know strings.
Whatever else it might be we can send through the button and it'll behave logically.
So for that to happen we need to get to the button grid and we need to grab every single button and
then stop to do this with a new something called a fall loop.
Now this is the first time we've looked at a full loop in this course.
If you've done programming before you're probably familiar with the for loop.
But just in case let's go order fully up is and how it works so that everybody's up to speed.
What's going to happen is on button connect I mean go for Button in
button right.
This would button is kind of irrelevant doesn't it.
Would you put.
I for I am putting grid for child for mouse.
I'm on call button because it feels more sensible right now.
And what this is saying is iterate this button for every thing in this condition.
The condition is the second bit right in the condition in button.
Red means.
Within button.
Right now I don't just mean but from grid I mean get shelled.
So here's what they're saying.
Iterate button for every child of button.
Right.
OK.
So what I want to do is take this thing which is going to be a child right because that's what this
iteration is.
And I want to connect it so button connect.
I'm doing button connect so that we know that it's the child that's connecting not to the thing calling
the script not connecting self and connecting button I'm connecting and script.
So I don't have to go through manually and connect them most signals connecting a script also allows
me to pass custom arguments through.
OK.
So what are we connecting we're connecting the method Prest which is built into a button right and we
know it's built into a button because I click a button and there's pressed I don't need the brackets
because I'm using this as a string.
What are we connecting We're connecting to this script.
Right so the button is going to call a method.
In this script we called branding method and then they call it on button pressed.
Finally with a pass parson argument and the arguments can be passed in an array.
This allows you to pass multiple arguments in one place were only passing one argument and the argument
of passing is button the text.
Okay so this will work.
It'll take the text property from every child and pass that through.
Let's make sure were actually calling this so let's put a ready function in.
And when a connect buttons there connect buttons.
Correct so unready is going to connect.
If I run this right now it's going to crash and let me tell you why.
I've told you that when I take the text property from all the children of button great but one of these
children is not a button.
It's a texture rectangle and textured rectangles dont have a text field so if I run this itll say wait
what's this.
Right here invalid get indexed text on time.
Great.
So somehow I need to put an extra condition in here to say only do this if it's a button to do this
family use and if condition we've seen is OK right.
So if button which is the thing we're iterating of whatever iterating is button with a capital B.
But some of the capital B as a class is a..
Right.
So if button is Button admittedly that's a ridiculous piece of code but it makes me really happy.
If you want this to be a little bit less silly that we could call this child the fourth child in there
and then call this child and just change all the lowercase buttons to child.
That's more sensible.
I quite like button this button.
But this is a more sensible way of doing it.
This will no longer crash.
It won't do anything but it won't crash.
So function on and I have to write this exactly as I put it in text on button pressed and we have some
text coming at right we have a button information let's say let's call this what have you call this
button the button with press.
What button did we press.
OK.
I need to check if this is the okay button because the okay button is going to be kept as a string is
going to special the rest of these are going to be transferred from strings which Text property is up
from a string to an integer.
So let's take a look at that.
If Button equals equals Okay.
And I need to write that exactly as written on the label.
So capital O small k..
Because I'm matching strings and if the string doesn't match this won't work.
Oh good I have a brand new function when I call this check.
Yes right now we don't have a check guess function else so if it's not the okay but if it's another
button that you've just pressed we need to enter that information.
So let's make a new function called enter and we're going to pass the button value through.
But we need to turn it to an integer So let's cast that as an integer.
So just to quickly review what we're doing the moment this pop up is ready the moment no pad is ready.
It's going to connect all the hot buttons to do that.
It's going to say okay go through every single child of button right.
If the child has a button then connect it with a signal called Prest which is a built in signal so we
do have to wonder what it does to this script to the method on button pressed and passed through the
text of the child so won't try connect light everything else connect.
When you press the button if that button says Okay then go check the guess.
If it isn't enter something.
So we have these two functions let's put them in let's do them in order so function.
Check.
Guess what we're doing is really checking us the combination.
For now I'm just compile a variable called combination in the number pad.
We're going to move an hour in the next few videos but just so we can check if this is working variable
combination.
And let's.
This is going to have to be an array and I'm going to put a completely random combination that no one
has ever used before.
For 1 5 which means we need a variable combination and we need a guess.
I'm going to tell it straight off the bat.
You're an array.
That way if I do anything before this is initialize it already knows.
I can say if the guess equals equals combination and remember equals equals because we are checking
a value we're not setting a value.
And for now a check works print correct.
Else OK what happens if we get the completion wrong.
I'm going to reset the lock so let's do a reset lock function which will make us second.
OK so that's my check guess.
If the combination is right we shouldn't print correct to the console and if it's not let's reset the
lock completely.
Next where we need to make is enter so let's make enter.
Now enter is going to have this button coming in.
So let's say button and this is an integer y is an integer because were putting the numbers into this
array and then comparing them directly so this guess array has to be identical for combination in order
for the correct message to come up.
So what I want to happen while I want to append the guess.
And what about appending it with button.
OK so we are now just putting up a screen.
It's a bit they get though.
Make it easy to see what were doing so every time you enter a button the guess array is going to get
bigger.
We don't just want the buttons to be entered we want to be to update the display so let's update the
display.
And you'll get a bunch of new functions haven't we.
So just keep track of what we're doing I need a reset lock so let's make a new function called Reset
lock
and you can leave it blank for now.
And one called up update display you're at the wrong tab level.
There we go.
Anyone could object display
cause I'm making a bunch of functions and I don't lose track of where they can make some more spacier
the way the first thing I do.
The path that displays a little bit longer me Hutaree Let's put them on very variable so on reading
variable display equals and I just grab the display great.
So just easily with displays will be a lot smaller.
A display dot will not change the value of the beeby Kotex of VB Kotex equals.
And what's this going to be.
Well it's going to be what ever the guess is.
However I need to put a string in here and the guess is not a string.
It's an array not just an array an array of integers.
I need to somehow cast an array of integers as a string to do that.
I need to use pull string array and just to show that means it's an array of strings can only contain
strings.
What pull strings or am I using I'm using guess.
Now the problem with this is this going to return it as an array.
I need to join your array into a single string and to do that I'm going to use join.
Which is Bell O I N join that we can join left click on that is part of a full string array and returns
a string with each element joined with the delimiter.
The delimiters whatever I specify.
But if I specify an empty string it'll put it with no delimiter.
One more thing I want to do.
Forgot to do even you.
I want this guess that what's in text right now to be in the centre.
Somebody is beeby code to Centra it.
If you're not familiar with the code I will link you to a page that shows you common Beebee code commands.
But to like this square bracket centre.
Plus Atlas going to big screen loads of us who were doing and then over on this side.
Going do the same thing with a slash.
So what they're selling it is until I tell you to stop centreing centre everything should I close that
tag out here with Slash centre and open and centre.
Whatever the guesses.
Great.
One more thing I want to do.
Once you've entered the sex I want you to check is the size of this array is the size of guess the same
as the combination.
And if it is check the guess.
Otherwise don't worry about it.
I'm going to do that and it's a go.
If Guess what the size right.
How many things are in disarray.
Equals.
I'm checking a value on not setting values of two equals combination size
and what you to do it we want to check the guess.
And that's our error because I want to make taps.
If the guest size is the same as the combination size.
If there's the same amount of values in this array as there are in this one check if the combination
is correct and if it is we can print correct.
If it isn't it'll reset the lock.
I don't need any kind of else here because if it's not just stop doing what you're doing great.
Next thing I need to do is put a reset lock and what this is going to do is say click the display so
display clear as nice and easy.
If you're not sure what that is by the way it's exactly the same as saying display Beebee code text
equals.
Mean these are identical cleary's just each other right.
And let's do a guess dot.
Clear.
So just to clear the display and clear the guess.
Let's see if that works.
Run up to the doors make a big screen there go right up to the doors because we.
I through press a button.
Oh wait I can't see big screen.
You can't see my guesses.
Aha.
So if I type 8 5 8 Nothing happens for one 5 should get correct.
Great.
That's now working.
So we have the beginnings of a working display.
One thing I would like to do is get this light to change the game so if I show the light right now I've
got a red light kind of an orange red.
I want it to be green.
If the combination is correct I'd like you to see if you can have that light change green if the combination
is correct.
Quick tip you might need to use a Titan node because otherwise we're not going to see it later on.
The reason is this if you get the combination correct we're going to hide the pop up display automatically.
So let's put time a.m. So pause the video seething at the light.
Come on.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution.
OK.
Mac.
All right.
Couple of ways you could do this.
We could do something clever with modulate and all the rest of it.
But what I'm going to do is I'm going to go into my number had seen and I'm on the ADD a time note.
And I want to make sure there's a set all one shot.
I don't want this repeating all the time.
And I connect this as a signal to nap.
It's all the way down the bottom there.
So let's bring it back up.
So were the combinations correct.
We're going to start this timer.
Timer.
Start though again.
We know a couple of other things to change the colour of this light so we got the timer starting and
at the end of it which cannot print correct I should probably put that as a string because it's not
a variable.
Now let's actually set this line.
I would put this in global So let's find the Global script.
And underneath the sound effects I make some images so I'll see red lights and green lights.
Cool.
Let's go into our graphics into our interface Happy angie's and find out red lights and green lights.
If you know what you rent and green by the way.
Pick any colour you like and you can pick these two because you know the traditional certain a copy
the red light in here.
I might do the same with greenlights a copy parve equals and the path has to be a string save that OK
it's no bad.
So before we start the combination I'm going to set the light.
You know what we should probably sell white as an on read it very well.
So let's do that on really variable light because there is just to make it easier to read.
We actually get to this code.
OK.
So light dot texture.
He calls when we say global dot red light global dot red light is a string.
This can't be a string so ready to cast it in a load to make it a file.
Also it does look very silly.
I don't want the red light.
I want the green light.
There it is under reset lock.
I'm not going to put it as red just to make it nice and clear.
So light.
Texture.
He calls load global dot red light.
And let's see how that works.
Rubs the door.
That nice and small so we could see that message and hope gives me God.
I was about to do that.
Four one five light goes green.
One second later we are correct.
Awesome.
Final thing I want to do if this guest is correct is one hide this display.
So do down here.
It's got frint correct and it's going to hide.
Let's get rid of print correct for now.
So let's see how that works.
Four one five green light displays up boy.
The door is open because the guard opened it for me.
We didn't do that.
But we were up.
Oh I need to reset the lock as well don't I.
So hide and reset lock.
I should probably reset the lock on already so let's do that as well.
And then I think we're in good shape.
Why am I doing that because when I round the door it's a test don't say test.
That's not going to make sense and story so up to the door and it says nothing for one five.
Awesome.
And that brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've looked at four loops we've looked at wiring multiple child notes checking if a node
is a specific type.
If Button It's button and using pull string array and join to turn an array of integers into a single
string.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.